[Term Entry] JavaScript Array .every() (#2717)
Codecademy/docs: content/javascript/concepts/arrays/terms/every/every.md

---
Title: '.every()'
Description: 'Checks if all elements in an array satisfy the condition specified by the given function.'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Arrays'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Iterators'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-javascript'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

> The **`.every()`** method iterates over each element in an array and stops when a falsy value is returned by the provided callback function. If a falsy value is found, every() returns `false`. Otherwise, if the callback function returns a truthy value for all elements, every() returns `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.every()`** method iterates over each element in an array and stops when a falsy value is returned by the provided callback function. If a falsy value is found, `.every()` returns `false`. Otherwise, the function will return `true`.
```

## Syntax

> ```js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```pseudo
```

array.every(callbackFn);

array.every(callbackFn, thisArg);
```

> The `.every()` method needs an argument `callbackFn`, which is a callback function executed on each element in the list. There can be a second argument `thisArg`, which is optional and is needed in special cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `.every()` method needs an argument `callbackFn`, which is a callback function executed on each element in the list. There can be a second argument `thisArg`, which is optional and is needed in [special cases](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/javascript/this).
```

The `callbackFn` function can contain up to three arguments, which are:

> - `element`: The current element, which is being processed by the actual iteration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `element`: The element being processed in the current iteration.
```

> - `index`: The position of the current element inside of an array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `index`: The position of the current element inside of the array.
```

- `array`: The current array, processed by the `.every()` method.

## Examples

Check if all words in the array have more than 3 characters:

```js
const words = ['apple', 'banana', 'cherry', 'date'];
const allLongWords = words.every((word) => word.length > 3);

console.log(allLongWords);
```

This example results in the following output:

```shell
true
```

> Method .every() doesn't read empty slots:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** `.every()` does not read empty slots.
```
